JOSS/paper.md, before:

---exportedFrom: f252a7590f5a6e06d67d5e8f727e14f451dcc863---  ---
  title: 'Dataviz: A package of domain specific visualizations and languages for the Pharo live coding environment'
  tags:
    - literate computing
    - reproducible research
    - data visualization
    - agile visualization
    - data activism
    - pocket infrastructures
    - moldable tools
    - civil tech
    - grafoscopio
  authors:
   - name: Offray Vladimir Luna Cárdenas
     orcid: 0000-0002-4640-6984
     affiliation: 1
     affiliation: 2
     affiliation: 3
  affiliations:
   - name: HackBo: a hackerspace in Bogotá
     index: 1
   - name: mutabiT
     index: 2
  - name: University of Caldas
     index: 3
  date: 06 April 2017
  bibliography: paper.bib
  ---

  # Summary

  Dataviz is a companion package for Grafoscopio [ @luna_cardenas_metaforas_2014] that puts together several examples
  of Domain Specific Visualizations and Domain Specific Languages (DSV, DSL, respectively) developed with the Roassal
  agile visualization engine [@bergel_agile_2016] in the fields of data activism [@milan_medios_2015], civic
  hacking [@schrock_civic_2016].
  Dataviz is the result of a PhD in Design & Creation, which in informed by the technique of observant participation
  [@moeran_participant_2007] and tries a critical approach to inhabit and foster communities and to provide them with some 
  tools and prototypes for their usual endeavors.
  Included prototypes approach several themes like:
  Panama Papers as reproducible Research [@luna_cardenas_panama_2016], Twitter data selfies [@luna_cardenas_twitter_2016]
  and published medicine access [@luna_cardenas_domain_2016] and are presented via blog post and internal interactive
  documentation via Grafoscopio notebooks.
  The classes in the package and their documentation show several levels of maturity from pretty mature (Panama Papers)
  to early coder practices (Infomed) and are offered as examples and excersises to learners in our recurrent Data Week
  workshop+hackathon, for code testing and refactoring.
  
  
  

  # References

Commit message:

JOSS: improved explanation of the research need.

JOSS/paper.md, after:

---exportedFrom: 9195c534734c439d3afd0f369b7a0c0d2dfb214f---  ---
  title: 'Dataviz: A package of domain specific visualizations and languages for the Pharo live coding environment'
  tags:
    - literate computing
    - reproducible research
    - data visualization
    - agile visualization
    - data activism
    - pocket infrastructures
    - moldable tools
    - civil tech
    - grafoscopio
  authors:
   - name: Offray Vladimir Luna Cárdenas
     orcid: 0000-0002-4640-6984
     affiliation: 1
     affiliation: 2
     affiliation: 3
  affiliations:
   - name: HackBo: a hackerspace in Bogotá
     index: 1
   - name: mutabiT
     index: 2
  - name: University of Caldas
     index: 3
  date: 06 April 2017
  bibliography: paper.bib
  ---

  # Summary

  Dataviz is a companion package for Grafoscopio [ @luna_cardenas_metaforas_2014] that puts together several examples
  of Domain Specific Visualizations and Domain Specific Languages (DSV, DSL, respectively) developed with the Roassal
  agile visualization engine [@bergel_agile_2016] in the fields of data activism [@milan_medios_2015], civic
  hacking [@schrock_civic_2016].
  Dataviz is the result of a PhD in Design & Creation, which in informed by the technique of observant participation
  [@moeran_participant_2007] and tries a critical approach to inhabit and foster communities and to provide them with some 
  tools and prototypes for their usual endeavors.
  Included prototypes approach several themes like:
  Panama Papers as reproducible Research [@luna_cardenas_panama_2016], Twitter data selfies [@luna_cardenas_twitter_2016]
  and published medicine access [@luna_cardenas_domain_2016] and are presented via blog post and internal interactive
  documentation via Grafoscopio notebooks.
  Dataviz is part of a set of "pocket infrastructures"  which are arrangements of tools which are characterized for being: simple, 
  self contained, and working fine on-line and off-line and run in a wide spectrum of hardware, from USB drives to modest laptops 
  and beyond (and in between), which contrast sharply with the exclusionary discourse, infrastructure and practice of "Big Data" and 
  the classical idea of predicting the future by hyping only a part of it. 
  Using such pocket infrastructures (like Dataviz, Grafosocpio and Fossil), researchers propose a way to put in "everybody's pockets" 
  the tools for being a data/digital citizen, instead in only the places with "deep pockets" (money, resources, big data centers, 
  gigantic data bases & data sets and so on), and some prototypes, like the one the Panama Papers, are showing that is possible to 
  have a more inclusive approach, to problems that has been approached only from the Big Data perspective.
  This also means an alternative way of dealing with data.
  Instead of being the data threshing machine that tries to process everything, pocket infrastructures try to "build the magnet to 
  find the needle in the haystack", focusing on frictionless interconnected data [@pollock_frictionless_2013] and zooming out 
  from there.
  The classes in the package and their documentation show several levels of maturity from pretty mature (Panama Papers)
  to early coder practices (Infomed) and are offered as examples and excersises for data activist and related practitioners 
  (in journalism, research a other fields) practical examples of how pocket infrastructures could be provided for such fields and
  the Data Week W our recurrent Data Week workshop+hackathon, for code testing and refactoring, while
  
  
  

  # References
